The nano membrane toilet has a very similar appearance to the toilets found in average Canadian households, but under the seat it functions very differently. Instead of using running water to flush away waste, the nano membrane toilet has a rotating mechanism to move it to a odor containing chamber. The toilet then uses a nano membrane to extract out water from the waste that could be used for house hold cleaning. The waste is then incinerated for use as fertilizer.

The concepts of Good Design has a commandment that "good design is aesthetic" which lends itself to the reductionist style. It is clear that the nano membrane toilet follows reductionist style as it has not added any extra style, it does what it needs to with no extra flare. This toilet was designed to operate in areas where power and plumbing might not be functional so every function it has must be simple enough to operate under these constraints. By using man powered mechanisms this alleviates the need for electricity and it also makes the toilet much easier to repair. The movement of waste without the use of water also means that the lack of plumbing is not an issue. By adding nothing extraneous the nano membrane has made itself more useful for its market audience. Not only does the nano membrane toilet not use resources it outputs water and fertilizer while not introducing waste that could spread disease. There is little on this to break and its design accomplishes its goals, so by reductionism this toilet is beautiful.

The name alone of the nano membrane toilet shows how innovative the technology involved in it is. It uses a nano membrane to create vaporized water. While the internal science of the toilet is cutting edge the outward appearance of it is quite normal. Anyone with any experience with toilets knows where to sit, and even if you'd never experienced a toilet you would still recognize it as a chair-like object. I would lean towards saying that this design follows modernism since the toilet went for the design used by most "modern" people regardless of where the toilet would be used. It is designed for use in developing countries many of which don't have plumbing, its possible that the people using this product have not experienced a toilet in this form. The design went with what was most functional without regard for the context in which it would be used.

In summary the design is very reductionist as it aims to fulfill its purpose with little care for any extra design on top which is the correct approach for a product designed to be used in less than ideal circumstances. The toilet's design is just a modern toilet, they didn't respect the culture of its users and instead modeled it after the toilets used in developed countries, nor did they try to challenge anything. I think this is a brilliant design that fulfills its role perfectly.
