Mexico City has a large problem with harassment on public transit, particularly towards women. In order to resolve this situation a bus company called Corevsa is working to help the situation with its new line of buses. The buses aim to allow bystanders to help when they see a situation without having to directly confront someone. It does this by allowing them to send a message on their phone that plays an anti-harassment message over the bus' intercom. In order to solve the problem at is source the buses also contain advertisements that combat the view that harassment is caused by the victims “looking for it”. Corevsa has also introduced a training program for its drivers to help them handle harassment situations correctly and with confidence.

It is clear from the design of these buses that they are aiming to do good, both morally and rationally. It is clear that the current situation is infringing on the rider’s rights to liberty. We all know that harassment is wrong, so why are people not following their social obligation to stop such things when they see them? It is mostly due to fear of confrontation. By allowing the riders to address the situation without having to confront the assailant they can try to do what is right without sacrificing themselves. By broadcasting to the entire bus the harasser’s actions along with a statement that it is wrong, the bus is acting to change what is socially acceptable within its own walls. According to our social contract this design encourages cooperation and proper behavior in society and so it is a good design.

The Corevsa design has a very apparent agenda with its design, and that is to stop harassment on public transport and change the public opinion on it. Its vision is to have a societal norm where harassment is never acceptable and people work together to stop it. To work towards this vision the design values dissemination of information to stop this from happening in the future, proper response to handle the problem if it occurs, and ease of reporting to acknowledge the problem when it occurs. The methods used are advertisements to spread information, driver training to handle the problem, and a easy app to make reporting simple. The bus design works towards its agenda in such a way that it will fulfill it without causing negatively impacting others which is what makes it a good design.

Overall I really like the design. It addresses the fact that most people want to help but are scared too and also works to change public opinion on the issue. Most importantly it gives a way to help those in need without harming anyone or causing any embarrassing situations. Harassment has many different meanings to different people and needs to be handled with care so as to deal with the problem without causing things to escalated and I think this design strikes a good balance.
